# CS340
Client/Server Dev

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

The two biggest things I did to write code that kept things easy were sticking to the Python naming conventions, something I still struggle to remember, and keeping the names of classes and functions simple so as to be easily understood.  The code for the CRUD module is also very simple.  While more complexity could be added, it is a good foundation for any interface with MongoDB.  Another thing that helps is comments.  Having comments to explain why certain choices are made or as reminders as to what the input type is, like a dictionary for the queries, helps to undestand and maintain the code when making changes.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Trial and error.  Constantly testing out small things as I go.  Sometimes this would be a simple query to just make sure I didn't screw up the authentication by making sure I could just see any results.  Once the CRUD module was deployed, I would constantly use the 4 operations to create a new doc, find it to make sure it was created correctly, update it and find it again to ensure the update worked, and then delete it so that I could use the same set of testing again whenever I made a change to the module.  The same thing helped when creating the dashboard.  I hadn't ever used HTML before, so seeing which dash components or functions related to HTML was only half useful.  I still had to add a single line, like a bold header, and then run the dashboard to see what it looked like, where it was located, how big it was, and if it looked good.  I think this was one thing that Jupyter helped with a lot.  Being able to constantly run and rerun just the code you need made it easier and faster to test changes.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

We solve problems.  At our core, I believe this is what we are, problem solvers.  Sometimes we come up with our own problem and solution, but when working for a client, we are solving their problems for them.  Or at the very least, we are answering the questions they have so they can choose how to solve a problem.  I think when helping out a client like Grazioso, we are making their job easier and more efficient.  By doing that, they can spend more time focusing on what they want to achieve, rather than figuring out how to achieve it.  In this case, they can spend les time finding dogs to train, and more time actually training them.
